# Code 401 Ethics in Tech

## Ethics in the Workplace
* I chose to read an article regarding Microsoft employees pushing back against their employer for having a software contract with the goverment agency ICE during the Trump era policy of separating children from their parents. The employees took action by writing a letter and posting it to an internal messaging board and called for the company to end the contract and review any other government contracts they had. In terms of my own personal stance on the situation with ICE I wholeheartedly agree that it is wrong. I think it is great that Microsoft employees are given the freedom to be able to criticize their company in that way to try and have an influence on the company's ethical decision making. I do wonder if they faced any repercussions as a result of speaking out, as some would at other companies. I also wonder if anything really came of it other than the Microsoft leadership saying they disagreed with the policy. At the end of the day did the company actually do anything about it? But with all that said, according to the article, the outburst did result in some charitable donations on  the part of employees and on that front that is really positive so if nothing else it is great they spoke up and contributed positively.
* [Source NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/19/technology/tech-companies-immigration-border.html)

## Ethics in Technology
* The article I chose to read for this subject involved how big data has become a civil rights issue without the public being aware of it. The author illustrates how big data went from a scarcity to a cheap commodity and as that evolution took place, collection of any data and then post collection analysis became the norm. This allowed for much greater profiling of users and has started to be used in questionable ways such as affecting personal credit limits. The author argues that because this data, that companies claim is to be used for personalization such as finding songs you like, can be used to determine gender, race, ethnicity, religion and other aspects about you, it can therefore be used to discriminate or "personalize" in a negative way so to speak. I think this is a really valid argument and I agree very strongly with the fact that our data is being manipulated in uncomfortable ways. It is not a good feeling when you look at a store online and then ads for the next month you see on other pages are about that item. It feels like an invasion of privacy and that example is incredibly minor compared to the thought of being denied a service because of your last name or race which was obtained through your personal data. Unfortunately I feel that our legislature is far behind the advance of technology and on top of that is beholden to companies, tech ones included, and for those reasons I don't see meaninigful change on the horizon. I do appreciate, though, authors such as that of this article which shed light on these issues.
* [Source Solve for Interesting](http://solveforinteresting.com/big-data-is-our-generations-civil-rights-issue-and-we-dont-know-it/)

[Table of Contents](README.md)